[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: There's a
new technology in philosophy
that's emerged over the last
decade called transhumanism.
Though there were
cloaked mentions
in literary pieces
of past times,
transhumanism is gaining
mainstream attention.
But what does it
mean for humanity?
Byron Belitsos,
leading publisher
of the works about
"The Urantia Book"
and many other profound
works, is with us
to discuss the human history
of tranhuman interventionism
and the question of
spiritual ethics.
I think I meant to say
"transhumanism," not
"tranhumanism."
Anyway, Byron, welcome.
This is a very touchy topic.
It has a lot of light,
a lot of potential.
It has a lot of dark, but it,
like everything else in life,
it seems to matter whose
hands the power is in.
Right?
>>BYRON BELITSOS: Right,
like anything else.
And first, Regina, it's
just an honor and a pleasure
to be back on "Open Minds."
>>REGINA: Thank you.
So first of all,
let's talk about what
is the definition
of transhumanism
as we understand it today.
Because we have a lot of
people in the world of science.
We have sites like
intelligence.org.
We have a lot of
brainiacs at MIT
trying to perpetuate
the notion of what
our future will look like
being enhanced by technology.
>>BELITSOS: Well, I think
that's the definition.
It's an enhancement of human
capacities with technology.
Mainly I think genetic
biotech and genetics.
But also, of course, AI
and computing advances
that can make it possible to
create robots that can actually
emulate human capacities, such
as emulating the brain itself,
which is the great
project that was funded,
I just found out, by
the European Commission.
They put a billion dollars
into funding brain emulation
software.
All the capacity
of the brain will
be programmed into a
single program that
will emulate the human brain.
So this is really going far.
>>REGINA: It's going far, but
every time I hear about it,
there's one thing that comes
back as far as I'm concerned.
And that is, but where is
there a place for the greater
field of intelligence,
for the greater
mind, the nonphysical mind which
is intuition, which is soul,
which is spirit?
How does that factor in?
And that's going to become the
nature of this conversation.
>>BELITSOS: Yeah, that's
where we want to go,
because most of the
people that are doing this
are materialists.
They're reductionists.
They don't really understand
consciousness the way we do.
They see consciousness as an
epiphenomenon of the brain.
So if you can get
the brain just right,
then you can generate
consciousness.
So they think that if the
software is good enough,
then they'll generate
a self-aware being.
I mean, they're really
serious about it too.
>>REGINA: Is that what the
European Commission is hoping
to find at the end of
spending a billion dollars
on their search? [LAUGHS]
>>BELITSOS: I don't know
if that's in their public
document, but it's
probably in the--
>>REGINA: The search
for consciousness.
We have many places to
go in this discussion,
and because you have a very
broad and unique viewpoint
on it, I'm going to ask you when
the point comes to just launch
into what you feel
is appropriate
and not necessarily
just have to stick
with what I'm throwing at you.
And one of the things
we'll start with
is Ted Peters had something--
I've interviewed Ted Peters.
He had a little bit to
say on this subject.
And I'll refer
any of our viewers
also over to watch my interview
with Ted Peters later.
But what did he have to
say about it, and why
was it significant?
>>BELITSOS: Ted is an
amazing theologian.
I actually studied
with him when I
was a theological
student at Berkeley,
and so I got to know him.
And he and I
disagreed, actually,
about me doing a dissertation
on "The Urantia Book."
So that's how I got
to know Ted Peters.
That was 25 years ago.
So I branched out.
I stopped being an
academic after that.
But I followed Ted's career.
Ted is amazing because
he loves to track
on contemporary, religious,
cultish movements.
And he considers transhumanism
to be like a cult.
It's like a religion that has
characteristics of any cult,
except they don't have a central
guru that they worship and they
don't have a deity,
exactly, that they worship.
But other than that--
>>REGINA: But one of
the main cathedrals
is MIT from what I understand.
>>BELITSOS: Yeah, yeah.
And other such stuff.
And certainly in the west coast,
the Singularity University
founded by Kurzweil, that's
where the high priests are.
I don't know if
you've covered that.
>>REGINA: I have not yet.
>>BELITSOS: They're amazing.
Really, it's impressive.
And they've got a lot of money.
Kurzweil then was
moved over to Google.
>>REGINA: I know.
When I saw that, that
concerned me a little bit.
>>BELITSOS: I would be, yeah.
Because Kurzweil is talking
about the reductionist model,
a material version of
transhumanism purely,
meaning these guys
are atheists and they
don't believe in consciousness
as a thing in itself.
So here is Google with unlimited
funding-- unlimited funding--
to go all the way
down the rabbit hole
into transhumanist experiments.
>>REGINA: What's interesting is
the wives of the Google boys,
they are both geneticists.
They're the ones that started
23andMe, which gets people
around the world to opt
in and pay for having
their genetics mapped.
The idea is to see what
might be a propensity
for a particular kind of
ailment within that bloodline.
That's not how I view it.
It's interesting because
they married roughly
at the same time.
Both the women are geneticists.
Kurzweil's coming into this.
It looks like it's a
little larger story to me.
>>BELITSOS: It's a huge story.
And the thing about
it, it's got money.
It's got money backing it.
And those of us doing
what we do don't
have that kind of funding to do
the research on consciousness,
for example, to show a
different paradigm from what
these guys are doing.
But actually, I
have faith that--
>>REGINA: Consciousness
will transcend--
>>BELITSOS: It will converge,
because the research
in consciousness studies
is very compelling.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's talk
about Ted Peters again.
That's where we
were starting to go.
>>BELITSOS: Yeah,
coming back to Ted.
>>REGINA: What did
he have to say?
>>BELITSOS: Well,
theologically, we
have established already
in this conversation
that these guys are
materialists and reductionists.
And they also do not have an
evolutionary picture of things.
So Ted is trying to say,
listen, current state of the art
paradigm in theology
is evolutionary.
And there's a what we call
panentheistic philosophy,
theology, which is
there is a god here,
but the god is not
the Old Testament god.
There's a god who is creator
and sets evolution into motion
over billions of years,
and so this long stretch
of the incarnation of
spirit into nature.
>>REGINA: And I remember a
few years ago interviewing
Bernard Haisch over
this, because he's
one of the people--
he's a physicist.
And again, this is where
people like Peters and Haisch
and those are coming together
to support this common viewpoint
now.
>>BELITSOS: Yeah, the
evolutionary theory
is deep, broad, and
you can't ignore it.
So what we're trying
to do, those of us
that are critics
of transhumanism,
is to bring this other
theoretical perspective
into a narrow box,
which is, oh, we're
just MIT technology people.
We're going to emulate the
brain and the human organs
and then create a robot.
But we don't know
what it's all about.
We don't know what it's for.
We're just being funded in
order to create some technology
that'll make somebody money.
>>REGINA: Right,
because toward what end
is not really being asked.
>>BELITSOS: And who
benefits from this?
Because all of this
is so privatized now.
There's European
Commission, which is public.
You know, they're funding this.
And Obama's administration
has given money also
to brain research for people
who are transhumanists as well.
So there's public money,
but these governments
are dominated by corporations.
>>REGINA: So it's always follow
the money trail, even in this.
Is it appropriate
to bring up the work
of Ted Chu at this point?
>>BELITSOS: Yeah.
Let's bring Ted into this.
Ted is a genius, I think,
who brought a book to me
about this subject.
I actually was a journalist,
covered Silicon Valley
in the 1980s, so I'm
familiar with the mentality
of these people.
And Ted is an economist who
was chief economist of General
Motors, so he had a
pretty interesting job,
and his hobby is to
study transhumanism.
And for 20 years, he
was looking at this.
But he brings a spiritual and
consciousness based approach
to this.
So here's this guy's
a genius in economics.
He's got this other
career where he's
bringing this paradigm
of evolutionary theory
and consciousness
studies and theology
to transhumanism--
or the technology--
and also the economics of this.
So he's got the whole
thing converging
in his new book, which
I published last year.
What is the human
purpose in this activity?
It's not discussed enough
among technologists.
They don't have the
education, and really,
the context for this.
So he's going to
bring the context.
So he's doing a study of all
the world's wisdom traditions.
And he's finding there that
they all have the same impulse
that the transhumanists
do, which
is human self-transcendence.
We're all looking for
a better life, right?
But I mean, some of us get
really radical about it.
So transhumanists are
But also, people who are
advanced practitioners
of spiritual systems
are also radical.
Monks are radical,
and they're trying
to get higher capacities through
prayer, through meditation,
through service.
So he's saying, well, why
is this any different?
It's just that now we've
augmented it with technology.
So we have much
more power, and we
can use these tools
to enhance anything.
We can enhance anything
with these tools.
We can change our genetics.
We can completely redo
the genome, in theory,
so we could create humans who
have much better genetics.
But it's really
the same impulse.
Again, it's taking
nature and enhancing
it using nature's methods,
and one of the methods
is humans researching nature.
That's all recursive
in that way.
So Ted has done, I
think, a master work
that's been widely reviewed
as being the first time anyone
brought the wisdom traditions
in the broadest sense
and evolutionary theory and
other theory and context
to the transhumanism project.
>>REGINA: OK, so that
brings us to the body
of this topic, which
is to now start
tracing back the
notion of transhumanism
into ancient times.
And this starts coming
up in the Urantia work,
which you've spent the last
20 years or so working with.
So let's start launching into
from the Urantia point of view,
bring in Zecharia
Sitchin's work,
because the time
frames are overlaying,
and we'll begin a dialogue
about how far this transhuman
interventionism goes,
how far back it goes.
>>BELITSOS: To the very
beginning of human history.
And so again, the
framing we've given this
is that there's this
self-transcending impulse.
It is within us, but it
also comes from outside.
So the thesis here is
that off planet influences
have the same impulse,
which is self-transcendence.
So evolution itself
is self-transcending.
So the big bang, if you believe
in the big bang, is an origin.
But there's self-transcending
stages of evolution.
And finally, we get
galaxies, and that's
a self-transcending stage.
It's autopoiesis, as
the scientists call it.
it's just generating itself.
And so you get to a
platform when you now
have galaxies and suns, and
the suns throw off planets,
and planets then
have life, and then
life is a whole new innovation.
So it's always novelty,
always novelty.
>>REGINA: The difference is
you said self-generating.
But we're talking
about something
that has an
intervention involved,
which is not self-generating.
>>BELITSOS: Right,
and this is what
I call the dance of
evolution and intervention.
So this is the
theory of evolution
you get from the
Urantia revelation.
The Urantia revelation says,
yes, there is evolution.
Nature has its own
autopoiesis built in.
You don't need to think that
God is doing everything,
which fundamentalists do.
They can't accept evolution.
They're creationists.
God sets it in
motion, so to speak,
so it's self-transcending.
But then there's
a point at which
there needs to be intervention.
So this is what you might
call interventionism,
but it's balanced
with evolutionism.
And some people call
it intelligent design.
So there's set in
motion and then
the designer comes
in and tweaks it.
And that's how we do
things with our devices.
And television is the same way.
>>REGINA: Animal
husbandry, botany,
we're doing it all the time.
>>BELITSOS: Yeah,
we're doing genetics,
and we're intervening
and changing.
Or if you're a cattle
rancher, and you're
breeding the
proper-- so why would
the universe be any different?
And if you have children,
you let your children play.
You don't tell them how to play.
You don't dictate how they play.
They play, but now and then,
you come in and you say, no, no,
no.
Let's come back to the sandbox
and not fight each other
and get back to play.
Then you back off again.
So "The Urantia Book"
has what I think
is a common sense
picture of this, which
is evolution set in to
motion, and then there's
a certain plateau effect.
When you hit that
plateau, then off planet
comes in and offers what I call
gifts, or blessings, really.
>>REGINA: Assuming it's being
done through proper intention
and high ethics.
And we're going to get into
where maybe that wasn't
the case also.
I mean, ideally, that is how
it would work and has worked.
>>BELITSOS: And has worked.
And what I like
about "The Urantia
Book," among many
things, is that it
says there are other planets
and it tells you about them,
and they're inhabited and
they have humans like us.
And there's not
millions or billions,
there's trillions of
inhabited planets.
And so they have the
record of evolution
of all these other planets.
And they're saying,
this is how we do it,
we, the celestial host.
This is how we sponsor
you into your planet.
Plant life, back off, let
you evolve, then come in
and we enhance.
And every time they are
coming in, they're benign.
They're deities, or they're
what we might call demigods,
coming in benign.
Now we have an exceptional
cases in the case
of Earth or Urantia,
which is what
they say is the name
of our planet, Urantia.
>>REGINA: It's atypical.
>>BELITSOS: It's atypical.
And it's a one in
a million situation
where the celestial host and
the local universe went dark.
So people say, well, how
could that possibly happen?
They're angels.
Angels are benign by definition.
Well, angels have free
will like humans do.
It's limited free will,
but they're like us.
They're not evolving
the way we do, exactly.
But built into the
system, so to speak,
is the ability for angels to
disagree with the program.
And it's a pretty
minor possibility,
but it's there
for a good reason,
because they have to
choose to do what they do.
They're not robots.
So the transhumanists
want to create
robots that are programmed.
But angels are not robots.
They have freedom.
So it is possible, in our case,
our angelic host went dark.
So it's very hard to stomach.
>>REGINA: Now let's
go to Earth's history.
According to Urantia, billions
of years for single cell life
forms to evolve, so to speak.
Right?
>>BELITSOS: So you
start-- and this
is conventional understanding
formed a billion years ago
or so-- there's the beginning
of life, single celled life.
And so this evolves, and you
get this in any textbook.
So "The Urantia Book"
says, first of all,
that life is planted
as a single cell.
They designed the cell
in celestial laboratories
according to the
characteristics of that planet.
So it's tweaked just
right for your atmosphere,
for what's on the planet.
So then they planted--
"they" are these beings that
have the job of doing it--
they actually have labs,
then they carry it, and
they're called life carriers.
So the life carriers
planted life.
Because this gets you
around the problem
of how do you explain life
emerging out of rocks?
They just can't explain it.
Nobody has an explanation.
So they have the so-called
Panspermia theory
from, I think it
was Crick, the guy
who was one of the two
innovators that discovered DNA.
And somewhere there has
to be a seeding coming
from some other place.
So a pretty distinguished
scientist that says this.
So it's the same idea
here, is that they're
actual beings that do this.
They're off planet.
They come, they plant.
So life then evolves, they
back off, watch this happen,
and they've done their job
well because the DNA is
designed so that it will work.
And so you go through
all the different stages
until you get hominids.
And so hominids come
four billion years later.
So these are very
patient beings.
Their forbearance is amazing.
So once we get to the
point of hominids,
then they're really watching
closely until we get to a point
that the hominids
become Homo erectus.
And at that point, they're
ready for the first intervention
which actually we
didn't talk yet, but--
>>REGINA: No, I
would like to, yes.
>>BELITSOS: It's actually two.
One is the ability
of humans to receive
inner light that is
in a dwelling spirit
into them, into their mind.
And so that's
background for this.
And so there's a guiding
spirit in each human,
but not all humans.
So that's the first off
planet, but it's very subtle,
quiet intervention.
>>REGINA: What is that
called in Urantia terms?
>>BELITSOS: It's called
the thought adjuster.
>>REGINA: The thought adjuster.
OK.
>>BELITSOS: It's a
non-technical term.
It's an entity that adjusts
your thoughts forward,
progressively.
But it's the same thing
as in Hinduism, the Atman,
which is a pure spark of
God within each of us.
So it's the same idea.
It's not the soul,
it's a different thing.
So once you get this,
you have some progress
until a point you
hit a plateau where
you need more intervention.
And this is the beginning,
and this is the unusual story
in "The Urantia Book," which
matches a little bit what
Sitchin says is the Anunnaki.
Anunnaki are exploitative
ETs, as everybody knows,
who he said came here
450,000 years ago.
But "The Urantia Book" says that
about half a million years ago,
pretty much the same time
line, came benign beings.
Not exactly
extraterrestrials, but they're
beings from a higher
world who incarnate.
And they come with the
first great intervention.
So this is an
intervention that's
going to take animal origin
beings, humans, we still have
animalistic characteristics.
They've come a really long way.
>>REGINA: And morality.
>>BELITSOS: And mortality.
They've come from pond
scum, so to speak, to humans
who can do some things.
They have some tools, and they
really don't have agriculture.
They're not even herders.
They're hunters, basically.
They're hunter gatherers.
So how do you get them
to move to the next level
of cultural evolution,
which would be herders,
and from herding to
get to agriculture?
Once you get to
agriculture, then you
can really have civilization.
But you can't build civilization
when everybody's out hunting.
So you need to have a
boost to get to that place,
to get to being
herders, which is
the depiction we have of
biblical figures like Abraham.
They're herders, and
they're also marauders.
And so you need to
get to that place
so that you can get to more
advanced tools and agriculture.
So they actually
send a delegation .
And according to
"The Urantia Book,"
every planet gets the
same kind of treatment.
They get a staff of
incarnate avatars.
Avatars is a term I use,
not in "The Urantia Book."
But it states that
they actually did
come here half a million years
ago into Mesopotamia, right
on the shores of
the Persian Gulf.
And there purportedly will
be archaeological evidence
of this, but it's
underwater there.
So when they
incarnated, which is
a huge, huge, huge
change in evolution,
it's now an intervention--
>>REGINA: You're saying
when the avatars incarnated?
>>BELITSOS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So they incarnated
in through human form
or a hybridized form?
>>BELITSOS: They created
hybridized bodies.
What they did is they had
a particular kind of being
that extracts the DNA from
indigenous inhabitants,
extracts their DNA
one at a time--
they had 100 of them,
50 men and 50 women--
they extract DNA and insert
them into constructed bodies.
So they construct these
bodies, but they're
bodies that are human bodies.
>>REGINA: But my
understanding is
they were superior in strength
and size and grace and all
this.
They were a more
perfected human form.
>>BELITSOS: The later
incarnations of Adam and Eve
are larger.
They're actually tall, much
taller, eight feet tall.
These beings look like humans
because they use human DNA
as the main architecture.
But there's a form that this
is injected into, so to speak.
But there's another
element which
is an encircuitment
in the system
circuits of the local
system of inhabited planets
from which these beings come.
So there's a higher
circuitry, so to speak,
which is biological
of life that, if you
have the right
constituents, is immortal.
And the additional constituent
is a tree-- the tree of life
is a literal fact,
according to this.
They came with a
tree that had a fruit
that if you eat the fruit,
it enables the circuitry
of this off planet--
>>REGINA: The
bio-electrical system.
>>BELITSOS: The
bio-electrical, off planet,
but it's metaphysical bio--
biophysical, metaphysical,
off planet circuitry of life.
It enables it to
operate, but you
have to eat these fruit
which sort of feed that.
So they came with a tree.
And this tree is put in
the center of the city
that they build.
And at the very
heart of the city is
a temple called the
Temple of the Unseen
Father, father mother god.
And this temple
is the first time
that the inhabitants
of the planet
have been given an off planet
religion that they teach.
So suddenly these
beings appear who
are hybrids of off
planet energies,
let's say, and human DNA.
And the indigenous
natives that they
chose to extract
DNA with we're also
given the same encircuitment,
and they too eat of the tree
and they are also immortal.
So there's actually 200
immortals, 100 human
and 100 transhuman.
>>REGINA: OK, now let me
just ask a quick question,
because I think
some of the viewers
may be thinking the
same thing I am.
When you're talking about a
tree and immortality, of course
we think Garden of Eden.
We think of the fall of man, the
eating of apple, and so forth.
Is there any link between these
at this point in the story?
>>BELITSOS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Because that
fruit did go away.
So, OK.
So let's talk about
that so we can start
blending the themes in a bit.
>>BELITSOS: So
this is intricate,
so I'm going to try
to slow a little bit.
>>REGINA: Take your time.
We have plenty of time.
Do it.
>>BELITSOS: So in the Bible,
you have a garbled fusion
of the two great interventions,
the first one half
a million years ago, the
second one 38,000 years ago.
Both of them used the tree,
the so-called tree of life.
So the tree of life,
once it was transported
here from off planet-- it was
pretty interesting to think
of a shrub being brought in a
flying saucer or something--
planted, and it
produces fruit forever.
So after the collapse
of this capital
city, which I'll
get to, the tree
was taken to another location.
And then from that location
where it was preserved
was then moved to
the island of Cyprus.
So we started in
the Mesopotamia.
It's moved off site
because of a war,
then brought to the island
of Cyprus 38,000 years ago.
And then new incarnate
beings come, that being
the second great intervention.
So that's how we get
this tree thing, I think.
I hope that answers
your question.
>>REGINA: Mhm.
Yes, OK.
>>BELITSOS: But
the Bible kind of
has one big clump of stories,
so it's not differentiating.
>>REGINA: Eating from
the tree of knowledge.
>>BELITSOS: Then there's
another tree, the knowledge
of good and evil and
the tree of life,
but this says it truly
is a tree of life,
but it's like
extraterrestrial life.
It confers immortality.
So you have immortals
living on Earth.
And its the only
allusion I found anything
quite like that is
in Daoism, which
has this legend of immortals.
But there's others too,
but the Daoist immortals
are very vivid.
Who are these immortals that
are at the source of Daoism?
So you might say this is these
things that go all the way back
500,000 years ago and
the legend of this
diffused throughout the
world, but in garbled ways
and translated in odd ways.
>>REGINA: And often
through their own shamanic
understandings of life.
>>BELITSOS: And each
indigenous group
had a different shamanic view
and a different religious view.
But there's a lot
of things in common.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
There are certain themes
that keep popping up,
such as great destruction,
such as inundations
that have cleared
masses of humankind
to recede again, and such.
So those are common, it
seems, throughout the planet
and to most religions.
>>BELITSOS: And that there
are these benign beings
who came to Earth to teach us
civilization or teach us skills
and new teachings of religion.
And that's universal.
>>REGINA: So we have
the first Adam and Eve.
We have the city
that was created.
And then what happened
to that iteration of us?
>>BELITSOS: So first,
Adam and Eve is second.
So first, again, is what we
call the staff of the prince.
So now I'm going to
introduce who this prince is.
So prince comes from
the biblical allusion
to the prince of this world.
So the Urantia book
borrows things the Bible
and then updates them.
So the prince of this
world, according to Jesus,
was the devil, so to speak.
So they come with a celestial
host that's invisible.
So the inhabitants
don't see these beings,
but they see them.
So at the head of
this is Caligastia.
So this is this new
name, Caligastia.
But Shakespeare
may have borrowed,
or they may have borrowed
from Shakespeare,
because he has Caliban,
who's this dark figure
in "The Tempest."
So Caligastia is now the
governor general of the planet.
So when these guys
come, they bring
the planetary chief executive.
So the planetary chief
executive is an invisible being
who's in charge of the celestial
host and also the humans.
But not being able
to see him, you
have to take translations
from the avatars.
So I'm saying that these
100 avatars are his staff.
So he's benign
and they're benign
and they're teaching
civilization.
So in "The Urantia
Book," it says that they
had 300,000 years of teaching.
That's a long time,
but the inhabitants
were really, really primitive.
So they're slowly teaching them
animal husbandry, for example.
They had no idea how
to domesticate animals.
They were hunters.
So they create tribes that can
do these particular things.
And they have 10 great
areas of skill teaching.
They're teaching them language.
They actually have the
first ever alphabet.
They're teaching
them governance,
how to run a tribal council.
They're teaching them
health practices.
sanitation practices--
>>REGINA: Which
was a big part it.
>>BELITSOS: --which is
important because sanitation
was unheard of.
And the beginning, once
they're ready to teach them
agriculture.
And on the site of
this capital city,
they have the first real
agricultural settlements there.
So they're training these people
and they're sending them out
and they're going out throughout
the Mesopotamia and then
beyond that and taking
these skills, which
are the skills that
are good for survival,
to tribes that are
really far distant.
So this is successful
for a long time
until the Lucifer
rebellion against begins.
So this is interesting,
again, and the reason I
bring up Sitchin
because Sitchin states
that 200,000 years ago,
there was a rebellion
within the Anunnaki.
The humans rebelled
against the Anunnaki.
So that's a similar time
line because the same timing
and the Urantia book states
that 200,000 years ago, there
was a rebellion.
But it's a pretty
different rebellion.
It's a rebellion of the angels.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now at this time, we have
300,000 years of teaching
that has been progressing.
We have the immortals
that are essentially
seeding information, practices,
and as you say, their knowledge
and sciences among the people.
But no crossbreeding
has begun yet?
>>BELITSOS: This is
not a breeding program.
>>REGINA: Right.
So that's later.
>>BELITSOS: That's
to come later.
And in a nutshell, their
two breeding programs,
you might say, those staff known
as the prince's staff of 100
are not supposed to
interbreed with humans.
However, they have genitals.
They could do that.
And so when they aborted
their entire regime-- that
is, it was disrupted by a kind
of revolution and warfare--
they then diffused
throughout Mesopotamia
and they began to interbreed.
That's sort of against
the plan, but they
do it anyway because they've
degenerated, so to speak.
>>REGINA: Is this what
was referred to in Genesis
or is that later?
>>BELITSOS: That's referred
to in Genesis, we believe,
as the Nephilim.
The giant who-- they are
bigger in their stature.
They're not like Adam and
Eve who are really big.
But they're big and
they're beautiful.
So those are the giants
in the Earth in those days
that precede the story of
Adam and Eve in the Bible,
and so that correlates
with "The Urantia Book."
But they already were
present, and they
created this place called the
land of the Nodites, which is
in Genesis 6:4, I think it is.
So this place called
the land of the Nodites.
And so borrowing
the term Nodites,
which is named after
one of the staff.
So the staff people, there were
100 staff people, one of them
was a guy named Nod.
So Nod is the leader of the
rebellion on the ground.
The leader of the rebellion
in the celestial realms
is Caligastia.
>>REGINA: So what is Nod--
let's talk about the nature
of the rebellion led by Nod.
>>BELITSOS: So it's led
ultimately off planet
by a high being named Lucifer.
So Lucifer-- this is hard
to follow, all this stuff,
so I'll try to go a little slow.
In "The Urantia Book,"
units of 1,000 inhabited
planets have an angel that's
the head angel, so to speak.
It's a super angel.
So our local group-- and
we're the 606th planet
in this local
group-- is headed up
by a brilliant being
who goes astray.
And it seems implausible,
but that's what we're told.
And it says one in
a million do this.
>>REGINA: Well,
and just a little
backfill from Timothy Wyllie's
work and the being Georgia,
which is basically very
similar to Urantia work,
it was stated that the reason
for that particular going
astray was because the processes
were so slow they thought
that it might be more
reasonable to speed up
this evolutionary process,
inject a little bit
more culture, more of
this, more of that,
and take it out of the hands of
the slow process of evolution
and thus, that was
part of the motivation.
>>BELITSOS: I'm really glad
you mentioned Timothy Wyllie's
work.
He's a close friend of mine.
I published one of his
books, and the new series
is incredible.
It's the same story as
in "The Urantia Book,"
but it adds like
tenfold increase.
>>REGINA: Yes, it does.
>>BELITSOS: So Lucifer
isn't like this awful dark--
basically, it has this different
theory about how evolution--
>>REGINA: Let's speed it up.
Let's work on it.
>>BELITSOS: This is taking,
like, 100,000 years.
We could speed this thing up.
We have innovative ideas.
We're lower angels, so to speak,
so why don't we try this out?
But he got pretty
diabolical about it.
Because he said, look, you
guys are oppressing us, "you"
being the higher beings all
the way up to God the Father.
You're oppressing us.
He didn't go that far as to
say God doesn't even exist
and that's a myth.
I mean, that's a pretty drastic
and radical manifesto, as they
call it, the Lucifer manifesto.
So he said, well, because
we know now this is a myth,
we're free to do what we want.
So we're going to experiment
and all the planets that
want to follow me, I will
tell you how to do it.
So I will tell you that you
need to speed things up.
And as for planet Earth,
what you're doing there,
it's taking you 300,000
years to get something.
But we can speed that up.
So they began to preach
to the inhabitants.
So once this comes
down from Lucifer
through Satan who's
lieutenant, to Caligastia,
then they begin
to say, well, hey.
These guys are right.
We've been sitting
here 300,000 years.
And humans aren't that
stupid, so why don't we
teach them more advanced
things that they can pick up
and we'll back them up.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now let's take that
and start looking
at where the genetic
manipulations begin from there.
>>BELITSOS: So
from there, there's
a massive disruption
because once empowered
in this way, the
inhabitants and natives
who are all in this, like, 100
miles square site-- Washington,
DC-- and has settled
for 100 miles,
and they have these villages
and these tribes are now
settled and
peaceful, and they're
coming along pretty well.
But now they're like, oh, wow.
It's like the Russian
Revolution or something.
Let's go out there and
really change things.
So they begin to
experiment in ways
that the natives can't handle.
The natives go out of control,
and they have this license
to do whatever they want.
>>REGINA: So what
did that look like?
What kind of genetic
experimentations
were done on humanity?
>>BELITSOS: That occurs later.
First what happens is they
begin to form factions.
And the factions go to
war saying, no, this
is the way to go.
No, this is the way to go.
So the staff, the
100 staff, have
to decide what are
we going to do now?
We got a problem here.
So 60 of them join the rebels
saying, we can make this work.
And 40 of them flee.
And those are the guys
the stay with the program,
but they flee, because--
>>REGINA: Stay with
the original program,
let it happen naturally,
supposedly within God's domain
and will.
>>BELITSOS: Within
the divine will--
>>REGINA: The divine blueprint.
>>BELITSOS: --which is
another way of saying
this is how evolution works.
It goes very slowly.
It took 4 billion
years to get hominids.
It's a slow thing, but
it works because we
got millions of planets
where this has worked.
>>REGINA: Don't mess with it.
So that's 40 of them.
The other 60 are saying,
hey, we're with you.
Let's speed this thing up.
>>BELITSOS: We're with you.
Then they've got their leader,
Caligastia is backing them,
so that's a lot of
prestige behind this idea.
So he's egging them on, so
right away the whole place
goes up in flames because
they're having a civil war.
So they have to basically
abandon the place
because it burns down.
So they move north.
And so this is known as
the Nodite migration.
The Nodite migration
is a migration
of these bands of humans who
are following the staff rebel
leaders into the whole
Mesopotamian area
and creating settlements.
So those are the
Nodites settlements
that are there long
before the biblical era.
And they are actually
higher cultures
because they begin to
interbreed with these staff--
>>REGINA: The 60 or so
that are remaining there.
>>BELITSOS: That are remaining.
So there's a massive
interbreeding program,
because that's part of
the acceleration program.
It's like, well,
you can create--
>>REGINA: So now you have the
Earth DNA and the alien DNA
really coming together.
>>BELITSOS: Coming
together, and this
is what you might call the
first transhuman project.
So it's a rogue project.
And it's working in a sense,
because these settlements
become advanced.
However, because of the way it
was born, they become warlike.
And so they become the first
sort of marauding warriors.
And they take over this region.
But the good guys flee
way up to the north,
and they flee into the
area near Afghanistan.
And that group, there's
not much history
about that in "The
Urantia Book,"
and that's filled in by Timothy
Wyllie's new transmissions,
so it's a whole other story.
And so those guys got
off with the tree.
So there was a luck in this,
because they got the tree.
>>REGINA: OK, so the
rebels got the tree.
>>BELITSOS: No, the
good guys got the tree.
>>REGINA: OK, I'm staying
with you here now.
OK, the good guys got the
tree, meaning now the rebels
are no longer immortal.
>>BELITSOS: So the rebels
are no longer immortal,
and that's another reason
to interbreed, so as
to pass the generics
onto these natives.
So they pass the genetics on,
and then these guys die off,
but they live a
really long time.
And so they're
the heroes of old.
This is where the legends come.
>>REGINA: You mean
the Old Testament?
>>BELITSOS: Yeah, in the
Old Testament and in Sumeria
and in all these
other-- so these
are the giants and
the Earth, they
are what others call
the ancient astronauts.
And they do have a
period of flowering,
but it goes backward
because of warfare.
Meanwhile in Afghanistan
region are these good guys,
and they spread out going east.
Now, this is outside
of "The Urantia Book."
But this is from
Wyllie's writings, which
are not accepted by Urantia, but
I think is very, very profound.
>>REGINA: I do, too.
>>BELITSOS: They move east,
and they end up in Lemuria,
which is also
extra-"Urantia Book," much,
much later because of the
warfare that is being waged
in Mesopotamia.
They have to get out there.
So this is what spreads
into India, into Asia,
East Asia, Japan, and then they
leap to islands in the Pacific
and create a very wonderful
culture called Lemuria.
So that's a great history
that we can get into.
But that's sort of the
transhumanist project
that I believe-- and this
is my own theory-- is
the source of the Illuminati is
in this area with the Nodites
interbreeding and then creating
this warlike race which
was egocentric and
which is believing
in this idea of liberty
without restraint.
>>REGINA: And without
responsibility.
>>BELITSOS: Yeah.
And they're building
civilization,
but they don't really have the
right idea of balancing liberty
and order.
>>REGINA: OK.
So a couple questions.
So do you believe that that
is the bloodline, that's
the basis of the bloodlines
that continue to perpetuate down
into these times?
>>BELITSOS: That's a
topic of my own research.
I don't know if people
agree that there
is such a thing as the
Illuminati of some sort,
whatever you want to call it.
There has to be a very
powerful source for this,
because they become
the royalties of Europe
and around the world.
Where do they get this
wealth, and where do they
get this genetic line
that they claim they have?
Well, trace it back at
least to Adam and Eve,
and those literal claims
of this sort of thing.
But it's much further back.
So this is getting
into very occult--
>>REGINA: It is, and
now we're getting
into satanic rituals that
are associated with it,
blue blood, alien
DNA said to have
contained more
copper base, that's
the original term, blue blood.
It gets kind of interesting
and saturated with other lore
once you get to that point.
>>BELITSOS: It gets
pretty convoluted,
and as we were talking
about backstage,
there's a lot of
inconsistency in this story.
So this is just one strong story
to try to track with this story
and then compare
to other stories.
>>REGINA: It would be
interesting through the Google
ladies DNA project to take
a look at their blood.
Take a look at those genetics.
>>BELITSOS: Well, there's
something to that.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I would
like to see that revealed.
Well, OK now.
So continue on, because
my next question
is going to be this--
what happens when
you take an essentially off
planet culture DNA pattern
and then you start merging
it via interbreeding
with an indigenous DNA pattern?
What happens to the soul
portion that chooses to embody?
See what I'm saying?
It starts getting
complicated there.
>>BELITSOS: It gets
really complicated,
and it depends on
what you mean by soul.
But I think of the soul as
that which survives death.
>>REGINA: Right.
But it has to have all
these imprints somehow laid
down there.
>>BELITSOS: Yeah.
It has imprints of-- my
understanding of soul
is it has do with
things you actually do
and decisions you make
imprint the souls.
So if these people are
dark in their choices,
then their souls are dark.
So the soul material,
so to speak,
that's coming into the
afterlife is backward.
Because these are dark humans.
>>REGINA: Now we're talking
about the Nodite line.
>>BELITSOS: The Nodite line.
However, on Earth they
have power and wealth.
But their souls are dark.
So what the objective of the
universe-- which I'd love
to get into this-- the
evolutionary objective
of the universe, the
reason for planting life
is to generate souls that then
contribute to a pool of souls,
which you might call the
oversoul, which itself is
evolving until it's perfected.
So there's a perfection
line of evolution
that ends with--
it actually comes
to a high point of perfection.
So this is really the purpose
of human existence according
to "The Urantia
Book" and others,
that we're moving toward
perfection not just on Earth,
but universal perfection
throughout all the planets,
and the higher worlds
are perfecting evolution.
So if you have a
planet where you're
generating souls
that are dark, they
don't contribute to evolution of
consciousness in the universe.
They're backward.
>>REGINA: And there
is a direct desire
then as a result of
being in a power position
and maintaining power to
continue repeating the pattern
and incarnating it into the same
bloodlines, because they hold,
basically, the chips.
>>BELITSOS: Right.
So there's a belief in
reincarnation of the sort
that they're coming back
to enjoy their privilege
and wealth.
So you could see it that way.
And that's not contributing
to universal consciousness
expansion, which has to do
with the souls that are benign
and loving being generated.
So the more love you generate
on a planet, the more progress
there is, not material but
metaphysical or consciousness.
And so once all beings in the
universe become perfected,
all beings become
enlightened, say,
in Mahayana Buddhism with all
beings become enlightened,
then the Bodhisattva
has done his or her job.
And so the angelics, or
like the Bodhisattvas who
were coming here to make
sure we become enlightened
and we are light enough
for a purpose, which
is an evolutionary purpose.
So the darkness says, we're
not interested in your version
of evolution.
We're interested in our freedom.
>>REGINA: OK, now.
Are you saying there
is now, I'd like
to find out, a knock down
effect from this particular new
scientifically materialistic
transhuman movement.
Is that from the Nodites?
Is that from the Illuminati?
Do you think bloodline,
is it a continuation?
>>BELITSOS: Yeah,
it seems to me--
and this is
speculative-- it seems
to me that this being the
source of power on our planet.
So they're dominant
and all the way
coming down to the present
moment to 9/11 and things
like that.
So they're manipulating things.
Right from the beginning,
it was a big manipulation.
So there's still
this manipulation.
Rather than letting us evolve
through love and through peace
building, they're using warfare.
They're using the Hegelian
dialectic, so to speak,
of opposition.
And then throw
technology in there,
then you really do get
a kind of acceleration.
You get a kind of acceleration,
but it's not an acceleration
that builds soulfulness.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>BELITSOS: It builds power.
The Russian Revolution's
a great example.
So you have a
revolution intervene
in the natural evolution.
It was not that great in Russia.
The peasants were
pretty oppressed.
But they did have a
democratic revolution.
So Bolshevism comes and it
says, well, this is not enough.
We can't just have a
democratic revolution.
We need a communist revolution.
So they intervene
and accelerate,
try to accelerate by
introducing technology.
But in order to
do that, they have
to destroy the ruling
class of Russia,
meaning they have to kill them.
But then they did get
technology imported into Russia.
That is the paradigm.
That is the Illuminati paradigm.
>>REGINA: Well, and
now the big game
is manipulating life itself,
manipulating intelligence
itself so it seems
like that would
be a natural
trajectory from where
it's been in the past
down through and into now.
>>BELITSOS: It's
manipulating whatever
you can get your hands on.
So if you can get your hands
on the genes, manipulate that.
If you can get your hands
on plows, manipulate that.
Whatever it is--
>>REGINA: So let's
take your point of view
on, philosophically,
what's to gain now?
I mean, obviously this
is a loaded question.
If you're of a
materialistic viewpoint
and you now have the ability
through money and science
to begin manipulating DNA,
manipulating intelligence,
what's that end game?
>>BELITSOS: It looks pretty
harsh because of the inequality
we see on the planet.
So obviously, these
characteristics
will be given to
powerful, wealthy people.
The whole thing
will be privatized.
>>REGINA: And including
life extension,
which is a part of this.
It's a big part of the agenda.
>>BELITSOS: Absolutely also.
>>REGINA: But now
you see, the thing
that's interesting to me is if
you have a viewpoint where life
is essentially a physical
vehicle the drops
and that's it, there
is every reason
to try to do anything
to extend life,
because there is no belief in
anything that transcends life.
So then you're
getting into it has
to be atheistic nature
driving this then, right?
Because of the
great fear of death
and losing the mortal
physical vehicle.
>>BELITSOS: Right.
Because these guys
are materialists,
they want immortality,
but they want
to win it not through
consciousness guidance,
but through material means.
So I sympathise, because these
people don't know any better.
And they do have
access to technologies
that can maybe do this.
Maybe so.
Maybe it's true.
Maybe we can extend
life 100 years.
>>REGINA: And maybe
we're naturally
extending life anyway
because of developments
that are occurring.
I mean, this is a
great period of change.
The frequencies have
changed about us,
so it might support our
own lengthening of life
quite naturally anyway.
>>BELITSOS: Because
naturally, life extension
has doubled in 100 years.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
No reason it shouldn't
happen again.
>>BELITSOS: You know, we get
technology and better food,
whatever, nutrition.
Kurzweil is this guy that's big
on nutrition and everything,
anything, because he doesn't
believe in an afterlife.
So this is a big issue.
>>REGINA: Yes.
This is a big issue.
>>BELITSOS: So if you don't have
a cosmology that is spiritual,
I'm sympathetic.
If you really believe that
you're going to be snuffed out,
then yeah.
You try to find a
tool to make yourself,
or maybe cryogenics or
something like that.
Timothy Leary, I
think, you know.
So you can imagine that
people, so-- this is fine.
These are technology people.
They can do what they're doing.
What we have to do is we
have to give this context
and we have to bring
theory, evolutionary theory
and theology and cosmology
that's based on consciousness.
And I think they're receptive.
Some are.
And this book that I
published by Ted Chu
show that many are receptive.
So it's at the core
of this are those
who have a regressive agenda.
Most of them have no idea.
It's the way it always is, so
there's a very small group that
is manipulating everybody else.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now I don't know if this is
a relevant question or not,
because it kind of
crosses between the two.
Mormonism and transhumanism--
what's up with that?
Because here you
have people that
do believe in an afterlife
and a transcendence,
and a very cosmic
transcendence at that.
What is their interest
in transhumanism
from what you can tell?
>>BELITSOS: Yeah, I
spoke at a conference--
>>REGINA: Yeah, I know.
That's why I'm asking you.
Like, what's up?
>>BELITSOS: It was
really an odd thing.
You know, these are
really great guys.
Mormonism has sort
of an apocryphal--
I don't know the
text enough to know,
because what they
were speaking about
was over the heads
of the audience,
because we don't know
their scriptures.
But they were really fervent,
and they were really smart,
the Mormon transhumanists.
>>REGINA: Did you get any kind
of inkling about what the--
>>BELITSOS:
Basically, they think
that God placed us here
to advance ourselves
in any way we can.
And there will be an afterlife
where we will enhance,
which will be like a
transhumanist opportunity.
But while we're here, let's use
what we have within God's plan.
So I think it's benign.
And Ted Peters, the theologian,
was impressed in his talk
with what they
were talking about.
He said, this is great
because you're embedding
this in an ethical system.
And Mormonism has a
very strong sense of--
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's bridging
the two worlds, yeah.
>>BELITSOS: So I think
it's a very good thing,
and it was very helpful
for my thesis to see,
oh, these guys are
working on this.
And oh, there was some Buddhists
there speaking about it,
and there was a Hindu speaker,
and there was a Muslim saying,
well, our religion talks
about self-transcendence.
Our religion talks about
super men, you know, so yeah.
We're for the technology, too.
So all the religions are
getting in on transhumanism,
and so that's all for the good.
So the Urantia
thing got injected
into that because it has a
picture of transhumans that's
very vivid and precise,
and of the afterlife that's
much more rich.
>>REGINA: We have only
about five minutes left.
Can you share that with us?
>>BELITSOS: Yes.
So we didn't get too much in,
and I think in our next hour,
we'll get into Adam and Eve.
So Adam and Eve are a
transhumanist project.
They're bringing a
genetic enhancement.
They're biological uplifters.
So that is really,
technically, what
we call transhumanism, where you
get an improved genetics coming
from somewhere.
So there's that,
but also the notion
of the afterlife in
"The Urantia Book"
is much more detailed
than any others text,
because I've
searched for 40 years
and I haven't found
anything close to this.
>>REGINA: So please share
with us a little taste of it.
>>BELITSOS: The heavenly realms
are an educational cosmos
that is there for us to
ascend through various levels
all the way up to the
central universe, a center
of the universe which is sort of
a seventh heaven, so to speak,
where there are perfect beings.
So we will become
perfected beings-- that
is, we will be totally
transhuman in the afterlife,
but we can become transhuman
in the Earth life too.
We'll become enlightened, but
we will lose, drop, our body.
>>REGINA: I was going
to say, is this part
of the process of ascension
which no longer requires,
say, reincarnation patterns?
>>BELITSOS: Right.
There wouldn't be a
return to the planet.
You would be getting higher
body and a higher vibration,
and higher and higher
and higher bodies
until you get to perfection.
So the perfected
beings meet and have
a big party with the perfecting
beings, the already perfect.
So there's this great dance of
the perfect and the perfecting,
which is the purpose
of the entire cosmos
according to the Urantia book.
So this is sponsored
by the creators.
It's a kind of play in
which evolutionary humans
on trillions of planets
are ascending to the center
and meeting the perfect
beings in the center.
>>REGINA: Which this is,
again, spread throughout most
religious doctrines when you
get into the depths of them,
isn't it?
That we're working on this
path toward perfection
where there's no longer a
need for the physical bodies
that we have now.
>>BELITSOS: In Pure Land
Buddhism, for example,
there's this paradise
that you go to where
there are perfect beings.
So, yeah.
Most traditions, the heavens
is where we're going,
and some we reincarnate.
But we get off the wheel in
Buddhism and we go somewhere.
So "The Urantia Book" has,
one of its great contributions
is that somewhere is
in very fast detail.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And meanwhile, the
materialistic viewpoint
of transhumanism
at this time, do
you see that as thwarting that
or maybe perhaps just being
another rung in the
ladder toward that?
>>BELITSOS: I think they're weak
so-called Illuminati right now,
so I don't think they'll be able
to thwart this forward motion
to progress.
But they're doing their best.
And so by putting the
transhumanist concept in a box,
they're thwarting.
But it gets out.
And benign researchers
are doing great things,
extending life,
improving our genetics,
and extraterrestrials are
getting into the act too.
>>REGINA: And just
energy medicines
alone that are now starting to
resurface after maybe hundreds
of thousands of
years, again, dealing
with that electrical field,
the bio-electrical field which
we were talking about earlier
and all the knowledge that's
coming about energy and
energetic matrix of the body
should in and of
itself help us live
longer and healthier
lives, more towards what
the ideal blueprint was.
>>BELITSOS: It's all
coming around now.
So this is going to be
a golden age coming up,
because the
transhumanist project is
going to succeed at something
beyond our wildest dreams.
>>REGINA: On that note,
thank you so much, Byron.
To learn more about the subject,
just begin an online search
down the transhuman rabbit hole.
Meanwhile, you can delve into
the Urantia work by going
to Byron's website,
evolving-souls.org
or urantia.org.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]